I want us to specifically
dive into SVG paths.
And that define attribute
I mentioned earlier,
because even within the SVG
elements I use really, often.
I find that like the path
element is extremely powerful.
And once we have a good understanding for
the syntax of that defined attribute,
we can really draw, really,
any shape that we might dream up.
Or as we talked about earlier, anything
that we can dream up in Illustrator,
we can draw in the browser.
And so
let's take a look at this flower petal,
and this is my little cherry
blossom flower petal.
And so here is the, SVG elements,
so this is what we need to
write to create this shape.
And so here we have the SVG and
I say I just want a width and
height of 100 pixels by 100 pixels.
And you can ignore the styling.
But the main thing is this path SVG path.
And we have the Define attribute.
And we're just saying,
don't fill it with any color.
Show get blank I want the stroke
to have a width of 2 pixels.
And, this is basically saying
move it to coordinate 50 pixels
horizontally and zero pixels vertically.
And so there's a lot going on here.
But the main part that we really, really
want to focus on is this defined stream.
And I knew that looking at it right now,
it looks like a bunch of gibberish.
Like especially if you see it in
the chrome inspector or something and
you see that SVG path and is this string,
sometimes it looks like a lot.
But we can actually break this
down to three different commands,
again the commands that I
like to use quite often.
With SVG paths, and there's definitely
many more commands that you
can use with SVG paths.
And these are the ones that I think,
especially with the curveto
are the most powerful.
So the three commands are moveto,
lineto, and curveto.
So let's talk about how
they work a little bit.
So moveto has a syntax of x, y.
And the way that I like to think
about it is, it means pick the pen
off the paper and
put it back down at this position x, y.
And then next command is lineto.
And so what this one is,
is we have a x, y position and
what that means is if the pen
is already on the paper,
so we either already have
a moveto command before it or maybe
we're changing on some other commands.
But the important thing is if we
have the pen already on the paper,
draw a straight line to that x,
y position.
And so you can see it here.
And so we chain it off of that moveto so
we have some
first move to x, y position that
we already have the pen on.
And then we draw that straight
line to the line to x, y position.
And the fun one is this curveto
this cubic Bezier curve.
And I think that with this one, and we can
actually draw a lot of different shapes.
So with this one is that we have
three sets of x, y coordinates.
The first one is this
blue control point or
anchor I think different materials call
it different things but control point.
The second x,y position is
this purple control point.
And finally, this red one is the x,
y coordinate that we should end up at.
And so the way that I like to think about
curveto is again if the pen is already
on the paper, in this example it's
on the paper with a moveto command.
So if the pen is already on the paper,
then we draw a straight line to
that final red x, y position.
And then we take the blue and
purple anchor points,
and we kind of drag it to and
we kind of like drag it and
nudge it until we get the curve we want.
And so actually you can also imagine that
if right now in this particular example,
we have the two anchor points going up.
But if you for example curve the,
if you put the purple anchor point,
kind of below that dotted line,
then you can draw a curve that
kind of looks like a sine wave.
So, it really is about kind of where
you position these two anchor points.
So here's how we can break
down that flower petals define
attribute from earlier.
So the first set of commands
is this move to 00.
This is Greenpoint.
And then I think of it
as I drew a straight
line to the x = 20 and y = 100.
And then I'm taking these
two anchor points, and
I drag it out to 5040 and 5070 and
that's how I get this first curve.
Then what happens is I've
changed on a lineto command.
So that now the very end x,
y coordinate of my previous curve
command is now my starting x, y and
then I draw a straight line to 085.
And then what happens is that previous
lineto command then switches and
becomes my starting point.
Draw a straight line to the ending and
the line to -2000 And
then our final curve uses that previous
line to as the starting positions and
draws the curve with
the ending point back 00.
And so
that's how we drew that flower petal.